Data cleaning
Given the nature of natural text, it is important to standardize the data before analysis. For this project, I transformed the text to lower case, removed punctuation, numbers, stop words, and any whitespace. Stop words are things like “a”, “the”, and “is” which connect subjects with different verbs and adjectives, but offer little insight when counting the probabilities of certain words appearing. For instance, knowing “a” has a very high probability of appearing tells us little, and reduces the accuracy of topics. I also chose to lemmatize the text, rather than stemming. Lemmatization uses a dictionary to reduce the numbers of words to a base element, i.e. “oaky” becomes “oak.” This allows for better language understanding, which is more valuable in a text study like this with complicated language use. Stemming, which would simply remove endings to different works, leads to better results in applications like search engines which need fast results. The words also become less decipherable, because non-words are created like “ubiquitously” becoming “ubiquit-.” The R code below uses the tm “text mining” package to make these transformations. Finally, the raw text is inserted into a document term matrix “DTM”. See the R code below. 
 

Splitting of groups
For the purpose of this research question, “how do wine reviewers function as gatekeepers when describing wines from different regions?” two categories of data are required. The study aims to examine what happens when reviewers describe new Up and Coming regions which do not have an established reputation. There are two portions to this step, the first is creating the criteria for what is “Established” and what is “Up and Coming” and the second is implementing this through creating new columns in R for each of the reviews in the dataset. 

It quickly became apparent that there were many more regions than I had familiarity with. Although the most popular regions for reviews were straightforward to guess— California, Bordeaux, Tuscany, Oregon – many could easily be considered Up and Coming. I first split the groups into two based on my general idea of what is Up and Coming, especially considering the dataset is from 2020 so many of the trends post covid in wine like rising popularity for Greek, Mexican, and Chinese wines hadn’t occurred yet. To create objectivity, I examined 4 years’ worth of top 100 lists from wineenthusiast.com, the same source of the reviews. I then included any regions which were listed here as established, given the top placement in the list. Notably, the wines of the Finger Lakes in New York State were included, so they are moved into the Established category, while other wines from long island for instance remain in Up and Coming. This achieves the effect of bringing the categories more in line with the same reviewers from the data set. It should also be noted that due to wines becoming unavailable over time, or removed from the website, many entries were omitted from the archived top 100 lists. What remains is a list of approx. 250 wines with region meta data. 

Some wine regions were omitted because the categories were too vague, such as “Spain other” “table wine” or “other.” Each category was scanned to make sure there was not region-specific information which may be extracted into other categories. The different columns were then created using the dplyr package, see below for the R code. 
